All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
2000-1-15 Use of Recording Devices on Campus
Responsible Executive
Senior Vice-President, Academic & Student Success
Policy Sponsor
Senior Vice-President, Academic & Student Success
Issue Date
September 24, 2014
Supersedes Date
September 24, 2014
Last Review
March 11, 2020
Last Revision
February 28, 2020
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
Lambton College is committed to providing for all parties a safe and comfortable education environment that supports effective learning. Lambton College is also committed to upholding the privacy rights of individuals as defined and protected by federal
    and provincial legislation, such as the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act, as well as the property rights inherent to the teaching-learning environment and explicitly protected under the Canada Copyright Act. The College also recognizes
    that the learning needs of individual students may vary from person to person and with time and circumstances, and so may, in some cases, deserve special consideration and accommodation.
Policy
No recording - mechanical, electronic, audio, video, still photography - is permitted in the classroom, laboratory or other learning or teaching-learning setting or environment without the express, written permission of the teacher or other College
        employee responsible for the setting or environment.
A student who wishes to record in the classroom, laboratory or other learning or teaching-learning setting or environment must request and receive permission - expressly given in writing - from the teacher, or other responsible College employee in
        authority, before any recording begins. The request must specify the date, time, location and other parameters defining the limits of the recording for which permission is sought. Permission to record is solely at the discretion of the teacher.
In the case of a student with a documented disability seeking to record as an accommodation or support for his/her learning, a signed recommendation from The Accessibility Centre recommending such accommodation shall cause the permission not to be
        unreasonably withheld.
Where the recording will capture the image or voice of other students or guests - other than incidentally - the permission, in writing, of the affected students or guests must also be obtained, and shown to the teacher or other responsible College
        employee when recording permission is sought.
Where permission for recording is denied by the teacher or other responsible College employee, the student may appeal the decision to the (Associate) Dean responsible for the course or activity for which recording permission is sought. Further appeal
        of any decision is available through
Appeal of an Academic Decision (2000-1-13) policy
.
Where permission is granted for any recording, the recording may be used only by the student to whom permission was given for the recording and only for his/her personal learning purposes. The recording, in whole or in part, may not be shared, copied,
        distributed or posted, in any way. The content of the recording remains the property of Lambton College and/or the teacher.
Where permission is granted for recording, the student must agree in writing to the conditions, limitations or provisions set down with the permission. Failure to do so will result in the loss of the permission to record, and may result in disciplinary
        actions by the College.
A student given permission to record must respect the privacy, dignity and comfort of others when recording or using the recordings. The recording cannot be distracting or disruptive for others.
Persons using recording devices anywhere on campus for any purpose must respect the privacy, dignity, comfort and rights of others when making or sharing recordings. All individuals on campus have rights and protection under, for example, the Freedom
        of Information and Protection of Privacy Act, and have rights with respect to their images and privacy, and basic expectations regarding privacy and comfort.
No conversations, meetings, presentations, etc. between or among parties may be recorded without the informing of all participants and the expressed consent of all parties involved more than incidentally.
When using recording devices on campus, failure to respect other individuals' rights, privacy, dignity, comfort and expectations for a safe and comfortable learning and teaching environment, or failure to comply with the conditions set down with the permission
        to record, may result in disciplinary actions by the College, including, but not limited to, all sanctions available through the student discipline policy.
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search