All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
2000-1-11 Study Breaks
Responsible Executive
Senior Vice-President, Academic & Student Success
Policy Sponsor
Senior Vice-President, Academic & Student Success
Issue Date
October 22, 2009
Supersedes Date
June 15, 2021
Last Review
March 21, 2022
Last Revision
March 21, 2022
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
Policy
The college will set aside the week following week seven of the Fall, Winter, and Spring terms as study weeks for most post-secondary programs. During these periods, class schedules for the participating programs will be suspended.
Non-post-secondary programs and activities will not normally participate in study weeks.
Any request for change must be brought forward to the program dean for review and approval.
Programs delivered in collaboration with other institutions may opt to use the academic calendar, including study week periods, of the partner institution(s).
Study weeks are intended primarily as a change of pace for students, and the time is to be used by them in whatever manner they judge to be most helpful in contributing toward the successful completion of their academic program.
Use of time during study weeks, therefore, is a student option.
Academic work, assignments, labs, etc. assigned to be due and submitted during the study week are not permitted, unless requested by the students.
Deans may make exceptions in those situations where special circumstances such as extended fieldwork or other commitments require adherence to regular or special academic schedules.
In exceptional circumstances, the College may alter or remove the Study Week with the approval of the Senior Vice-President, Academic & Student Success.
College services will be available to students throughout the study weeks.
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search