All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
2000-6-1 Student Achievement Awards
Responsible Executive
Senior Vice-President, Academic & Student Success
Policy Sponsor
Senior Vice-President, Academic & Student Success
Issue Date
November 19, 2010
Supersedes Date
June 25, 2019
Last Review
December 12, 2019
Last Revision
December 12, 2019
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
Policy
Lambton College will recognize student achievement with specific awards based on identified criteria. Students are recognized for academic achievement, leadership, and contribution to the quality of college life.
Graduate Awards
The Governor Generalʹs Medal will be awarded to the student who achieves the highest academic standing, with a minimum 3.7 GPA, upon graduation from a diploma or advanced diploma program. The "collegiate bronze" medal will be presented at the Convocation
        Ceremony.
The Board of Governors Academic Award recipient must demonstrate academic achievement, leadership activities and a commitment and contribution to the college community. The recipient must be nominated by a member of the college community. The Board
        of Governors award will be presented at the Convocation Ceremony.
The Lambton College Alumni Association Leadership Award recipient must be a graduate of a diploma or advanced diploma program who has achieved academic excellence, demonstrated leadership and commitment, is involved with extra-curricular activities
        and has made a contribution to the college community. The recipient must be nominated by a member of the college community. The Lambton College Alumni Association Leadership Award will be presented at the Convocation Ceremony.
The Deanʹs Award is awarded to those graduating students who achieve the highest academic standing in their respective programs. To be eligible, the students must have a minimum cumulative program GPA of 3.5 or greater. All students so selected will
        receive a letter from the Dean advising them of this honour.
The Deanʹs Honour List
The Deanʹs Honour List is prepared each term to recognize students who have demonstrated outstanding academic performance in the completed term. The list is composed of students who meet the following criteria:
The students must be enrolled full-time in a post‐secondary or post‐diploma program and be in good standing.
Students must have achieved a minimum term GPA of 3.5.
All students who achieve this standing will have the honour noted on their transcripts. Students who graduate with a minimum cumulative program GPA of 3.5 will have the honour noted in the Convocation program and on their transcripts.
Athletics Awards
Annually, the college will recognize the athletic, and the combined athletic and academic achievements of its students. The structure of, nature of and criteria for these awards will be established by the director of the athletics programming. The
        awards will be presented annually at a celebration of the achievements and awards.
External Scholarships
Each year, students are selected to receive scholarships and awards provided by organizations and individuals other than the college, based on specific criteria.
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search