All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
2000-4-4 Scholarship for Dependants of Deceased Canadian Forces Personnel
Responsible Executive
Senior Vice-President, Academic & Student Success
Policy Sponsor
Director, Institutional Intelligence & Registrar
Issue Date
December 13, 2019
Supersedes Date
November 12, 2009
Last Review
September 5, 2019
Last Revision
September 5, 2019
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
Policy
Co-founded by retired General Rick Hillier and Honorary Lieutenant-Colonel Kevin Reed in 2009, Project Hero has been instituted in colleges and universities across the country.
Lambton College is committed to honouring the memory of brave Canadians who have given their lives in the service of our Country by participating in Project Hero, establishing a scholarship program to provide financial assistance for the post-secondary
    education of dependents of Canadian Forces personnel who died while serving in an active mission since 2002, including children who have faced the death of a parent due to suicide attributable to military service.
Scholarship Program
Lambton College will provide financial assistance for tuition fees to a maximum of up to six semesters.
Eligibility
Recipients must be:
A dependent child of a Canadian Forces personnel deceased while serving in an active mission*
Under the age of 26
Registered as a full‐time post‐secondary student at Lambton College in a program of study that is eligible for funding by the Province of Ontario
A Canadian citizen or permanent resident
Eligibility will be determined by Canadian Forces criteria.
Scholarship Value
The value of the scholarship is equivalent to the amount of full‐time tuition for the program of study, to a maximum of the value of programs funded through the General Purpose Operating Grant. As per College policy, tuition fees do not include compulsory
        fees which will be the responsibility of the student.
Scholarship Duration
The scholarship is valid for a period of up to six full‐time semesters.
Procedure
The applicant is to express their intent to apply by emailing the Financial Aid Consultant with “Project Hero” in the subject line.
Other Conditions
The scholarship will be awarded in accordance with current Canada Revenue Agency legislation. T4As will be issued for the value of the scholarship.
The value of the scholarship will be credited to the student's account before each academic year or semester according to Lambton College policy.
The scholarship will cover programs offered by Lambton College. In the case of programs offered in partnership with other institutions, this scholarship will extend to only those semesters delivered by Lambton College.
If the recipient changes from full‐time to part‐time status, the recipient will be required to reimburse the portion of the scholarship already received for the session in which the change in status occurred.
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search