All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
2000-1-12 Student Request for Review of Instruction
Responsible Executive
Senior Vice-President, Academic & Student Success
Policy Sponsor
Senior Vice-President, Academic & Student Success
Issue Date
September 25, 2014
Supersedes Date
June 28, 2018
Last Review
March 27, 2023
Last Revision
March 27, 2023
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
Lambton College is committed to ensuring a collaborative, inviting learning environment. Where disagreements or concerns exist between parties, it is always desirable that a solution be found through informal discussion among the parties involved. However,
    when this cannot be achieved, a formal resolution process is required.
Policy Scope
This policy is intended to provide a mechanism for complaint resolution in cases where a review of the professor's presentation of a course is sought.
Complaints from individual students, including circumstances that fall under the
Respectful College Community (4000-5-3) policy
such as, but not limited to, harassment and discrimination - are outside of the scope of this policy.
Furthermore, Lambton College recognizes that students may need assistance in identifying the appropriate complaint resolution mechanism and may need further support throughout the application processes. Students needing such support are encouraged to
contact their Student Success Navigator
.
Policy
Students may request a formal review of the professor's presentation of a course through the Student Request for Review of Instruction process.
A student-requested review may not be commenced after the 12th week of classes in a 15-week semester (four-fifths of a semester of any other length).
Students who seek a review of the delivery of a course must first attempt to resolve outstanding issues through discussions with their professor.
If the discussions with the professor do not address the concerns of the students, the students are encouraged to meet with the dean to resolve the issues through informal discussions among all parties.
If, after discussion with the professor, and the informal discussion with the dean - if undertaken - the issues remain unresolved, the students may request a review of instruction by obtaining a
Student Request for Review of Instruction form
from the myLambton website. The form must be completed and delivered to the Office of the Registrar & Financial Aid Services.
The Student Request for Review of Instruction form must be completed by the student(s), and signed by at least one third of the students in the course section, and be accompanied by a detailed, written report describing the issues, students' concerns,
            the discussions with the professor and the date(s) of the discussion(s). The completed form must be returned to the Registrar. The Student Request for Review of Instruction will not be considered complete without all of the required documentation.
The Registrar will verify the signatories with the class list. If the request is complete, the Registrar will forward the Student Request for Review of Instruction form to the professor's dean for action.
Upon receipt of the form, including the documentation of the student-faculty discussions, the dean may choose to initially address the concerns through informal discussions with the students and, if necessary, the faculty. If a resolution satisfactory
            to all parties (i.e. dean, students, faculty, is achieved) then the request will be considered closed.
If a satisfactory solution is not realized within three working days of the filing of the completed request with the Registrar, then the dean must enter into a formal review of the instruction of the course.
In undertaking the formal review, the dean must, within five working days of his/her receipt of the request, meet with the class or representative(s) to review the issues and concerns as well as the resolution sought. Subsequently, the dean must meet
            with the professor to review and consider the details of the concerns and remedies sought by the students. For both meetings, the dean shall document the meetings (date, attendees, meeting notes).
Within three working days of the meeting with the professor, the dean will complete the formal review of instruction and meet with the professor to present his/her conclusions and any measures to be implemented. The dean will then meet with the class
            or representative(s) to inform them of the findings and conclusions, and any measures that will be implemented.
The dean will notify the Registrar of the conclusion of the review, whether informal or formal, and file with the Registrar a Report on the Resolution of the Student Request for Review of Instruction describing the completed process and measures taken
            to address the students' concerns.
The Registrar will forward the file - the Request for Review of Instruction and supporting documentation, and the Dean's Report on the Resolution of the Student Request for Review of Instruction - to the Senior Vice-President, Academic & Student Success.
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search