All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
2000-3-7 Faculty Release Time for Proposal Preparation
Responsible Executive
Senior Vice-President, Academic & Student Success
Policy Sponsor
Vice-President, Research & Innovation
Issue Date
May 26, 2016
Last Review
October 13, 2021
Last Revision
May 26, 2016
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
The Faculty Release Time program is intended to provide limited funding for SWF release time for faculty members developing grant proposals for external funding.
Policy
Eligibility
The applicant must be a full-time faculty member at the time of submitting the request for release time and during the term of the proposal preparation.
A faculty member is allowed only one submission per academic year.
Preference for SWF release time will be given to:
new (hired in the last three years) faculty,
applicants who describe incisive, innovative research with a strong likelihood of funding.
All faculty members are eligible for release time for proposal preparation, with preference given to the development of proposals that represent a change in direction for the faculty member's research or scholarship.
Applicants are encouraged to consult with the program coordinator and dean. The application for release time must be approved by the applicant’s Dean prior to submission.
The Research Innovation Fund Committee will evaluate each application and make a recommendation to the Vice-President, Research & Innovation.
In the case of an approved application, the financial commitment and the SWF hours will be determined by the Vice-President, Research & Innovation, in consultation with the dean of applicant’s school.
See Procedures
.
For all applications, whether approved or denied, the applicant will be notified via e-mail of the award decision.
Submission Deadline
The complete PDF document (including supporting documentation and all signatures), must be submitted electronically four months prior to the beginning of the term for which the release time is desired.
Use of Funds
For approved applications, the Applied Research and Innovation Office will provide funds for the cost of a replacement instructor to cover the SWF release time and associated responsibilities.
Research Compliance Requirements
If the research or proposal preparation involve activities that require compliance oversight or approval, it will be the responsibility of the applicant to obtain approval from the appropriate compliance committee(s) (e.g. Research Ethics Board) prior
            to the initiation of the research project.
Criteria
Applications for SWF release time will be reviewed and considered for funding based on
the quality of the proposed research,
the merit of the proposed research,
the impact and relevance of the proposed research,
the potential impact and relevance of the proposed research,
alignment with:
the College strategic plan,
College research areas, and
community relations.
Final Proposal Requirements
Recipients of funding for proposal preparation must submit to the Research & Innovation Department a final, developed, complete proposal at the end of the term in which the release time was provided.
Recipients of SWF release time who fail to submit the required final proposal, as described above, will be ineligible to apply for future release time through this program.
Procedure
The Research Innovation Fund Committee reviews all applications and materials, and prepares summary data.
The Committee recommends to the Dean of Applied Research and Innovation the approval or not of the application.
The Vice-President, Research & Innovation, in consultation with the dean of the applicant’s school, will determine the funding of SWF release time and also the number of SWF release hours based on the framework below. It is important to note that
            the framework is intended to guide the discussion and decision. There may be other factors that impact the proposal workload and resulting decision of the dean.
Table 1: Faculty Release Hours Determination Framework
Table 1: Faculty Release Hours Determination Framework
Steps
1-2 SWF hrs/wk
3-4 SWF hrs/wk
5-6 SWF hrs/wk
Application Documents
less than 30 pages
30 - 50 pages
more than 50 pages
Proposal Funding Amount
Less than $50,000
Less than $100,000 but more than $50,000
More than $100,000
Proposal Deadline
No deadline
Not a close deadline
Close deadline
Partnership
No partner
1 - 2 partners
More than 2 partners
Research Team
1 researcher
2 - 3 researchers
More than 3 researchers
The application form is called Expression of Intent Template - Faculty Release for Proposal Preparation and is available on the
Research & Innovation forms page
.
The Applicant should complete all sections of the application form, obtain the approval of the Dean of his/her school and then submit the signed and complete document electronically (PDF version) with any supporting documentation (i.e. letters from
            partners, previous works) to the Vice-President, Research & Innovation via
research@lambtoncollege.ca
.
Incomplete proposals or proposals NOT following the guidelines and format instructions will NOT be considered for review.
If an applicant is unable to access any form, he/she should contact the Applied Research and Innovation Office via
research@lambtoncollege.ca
Prior to preparing the application, the Research & Innovation Office is pleased to help the applicants by clarifying the process and also connecting the applicant with faculty members who have been or are involved in applied research proposal work.
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search