All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
2000-7-2 Use of College-Issued Student Email Address
Responsible Executive
Senior Vice-President, Academic & Student Success
Policy Sponsor
Director, Institutional Intelligence & Registrar
Issue Date
May 9, 2019
Last Review
May 9, 2019
Last Revision
May 9, 2016
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
This policy has drawn on materials and concepts from the corresponding policy at University of Windsor, King’s College and George Brown College.
Lambton College provides students with an email address to be used for institutional communications. This institutional email address serves to provide a standard channel for communications between the College and the student, maximize the probability
    that email between the College and the student remains secure and private, and provide reasonable assurance of the authenticity of the sender’s identity.
Policy
The College will provide, and maintain, an individual College email address for every registered student during the student’s registration at the College.
The College will operate on the assumption that the student reads the emails sent to the College e-mail address, and does so in a timely fashion.
The College is not obliged to accept or act on a student email unless it comes from the assigned College e-mail address.
The student is responsible for monitoring the College email address on a frequent and consistent basis.
Failure by the student to read, or read in a timely fashion, email sent to the College address will not exempt the student from any responsibilities associated with the email correspondence or consequences arising from the failure to read the email
        correspondence.
The student is required to report any technical difficulties with the College e-mail address to the IT Department.
Official College email containing confidential information will be sent only to the College-provided email address beginning no later than the tenth day of the student’s first term of study. The forwarding of e-mails to another address(es) by the
        student is done at the student’s risk and does not absolve the student from any responsibilities associated with or consequences arising from the email.
Emails of an urgent nature impacting student safety or persistence can be sent to the personal email address as well as the college email address by the College employee directly responsible for that communication. Care will be exercised to disclose
        no personal information and communication will be limited to a reference to the College email address.
Students using College email, including the College-provided email address, are required to adhere to the
Use of Information Technology Resources (4000-4-5) policy
and the
Student Rights & Responsibilities & Discipline (2000-5-1) policy
.
Faculty will require students to use the College’s learning management system (D2L) for course-specific communications.
Emails exchanged between Lambton College employees and students, and between the College and students are subject to the Freedom of Information & Protection of Privacy Act.
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search