All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
2000-8-2 Work Study & Employment Between Academic Terms (EBAT) Programs
Responsible Executive
Senior Vice-President, Academic & Student Success
Policy Sponsor
Director, Institutional Intelligence & Registrar
Issue Date
March 20, 2008
Supersedes Date
March 20, 2009
Last Review
May 22, 2020
Last Revision
May 7, 2020
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
Policy
The College will endeavour to provide employment opportunities for full‐time post-secondary or post‐diploma students who demonstrate financial need, through the Work Study program and the Employment Between Academic Terms program.
The Work Study Program
The Work Study program is designed to provide part-time employment opportunities to full‐time post‐secondary and post‐diploma students with a demonstrated financial need.
Work study position may be available in various departments.
Students must meet program criteria in order to participate. Eligibility is determined through an application process.
Work study participants must maintain satisfactory academic progress in order to qualify and continue in the work study program.
Employment Between Academic Terms (EBAT)
The EBAT program is designed to provide meaningful work opportunities to full‐time post‐secondary students who demonstrate financial need, are in good financial and academic standing and are returning to full‐time studies at Lambton College immediately
        following the work term.
EBAT positions may be available in various departments. Students will normally work up to a maximum of 35 hours per week. Students must meet program criteria in order to participate. Eligibility is determined through an application process.
Funding for EBAT positions is through the Tuition Set Aside program.
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search