All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
3000-1-4 Required Background Check
Responsible Executive
Senior Vice-President, Strategy & Corporate Services
Policy Sponsor
DIrector, Human Resources
Issue Date
October 18, 2018
Last Review
October 18, 2018
Last Revision
October 18, 2018
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
The college has a duty to provide for a safe and secure learning and working environment, a duty to protect its assets and information from loss, theft and misuse, a duty to protect its students and clients from undue risk, and an interest in upholding
    its reputation as a responsible public sector employer and institution.
The college therefore undertakes its hiring and assignment of duties in a duly diligent manner, including conducting background checks of potential and current employees where the nature or context of assignments and duties may require it.
Policy
This policy applies to all current and potential college employees, volunteers and service providers.
The Senior Manager responsible for the department employing the position in question, in consultation with the immediate manager of the department and the Human Resources
            department, will determine whether or not there is a requirement for a background check, and identify the particular background check, as a condition of hire for a particular position or as a condition of assignment
            to particular duties.
The Human Resources department will maintain a current list of positions and assignments requiring a background check.
The job description and any advertisement regarding the position shall indicate that: "In accordance with the Lambton College Required Background Check policy, this position requires that individuals provide, at their own cost, the appropriate background
            check as a condition of employment. The college reserves the discretion to determine if and how it addresses any adverse information in a background check report."
The background check requirement will be initiated only when the hiring manager identifies that the individual is the preferred candidate for employment. The hiring manager will provide the candidate with an offer of employment conditional on the
            completion of a satisfactory (to the college) background check.
When the college offers employment that is conditional on the completion of a satisfactory check, it will clearly state the condition and that the college reserves the discretion to determine how it addresses any adverse information in the background
            check report.
Individuals who are not current employees of the college applying for employment are responsible for applying for and paying the cost of the background check, and submitting the results to the Human Resources
            department.
Individuals who fail to provide the background check, after having been asked to do so, will cease to be considered for the role for which they applied.
In the case of individuals who are current employees of the college who are applying for or are assigned to a different position or different duties for which a background check is required:
the potential employing department will pay the cost of the background check;
the college reserves the discretion to determine how it addresses any adverse information in an employee's background check. The college will assess the results of the background check with a view to meeting its duties and interests, and any
                    applicable obligations under the Human Rights Code of Ontario and the Respectful College Community policy.
Individuals will not be placed in the role for which they are being considered until the background check report has been received and considered by the hiring manager, in consultation with the Human Resources
            department.
Employees may be required to provide a new background check at regular intervals or when circumstances or requirements change necessitating a current background check (e.g. a partner imposes new requirements for their site), or a need is identified
            by the department manager and confirmed by the Senior Manager.
The employee's department will pay the cost of the background check.
The college reserves the discretion to determine how it will address any adverse information in the employee's background check with a view to meeting its duties and interests, and any applicable obligations under the Human Rights Code of
                    Ontario and the Respectful College Community policy.
The Human Resources department is responsible for receiving and safeguarding submitted background check reports. The background check reports will be retained consistent with the college
Record Retention Policy (1000-1-3)
.
Definitions
Criminal Records Check
A check of the Canadian Police Information Centre database for unpardoned criminal convictions.
Criminal Record & Judicial Matters Check
In addition to the information provided in the Criminal Records Check, this check identifies recent offences for which an absolute or conditional discharge has resulted, outstanding charges or warrants and court orders (restrictions).
Vulnerable Sector Check
In addition to the information provided in the Criminal Records and Judicial Matters Check, the vulnerable sector check identifies criminal charges that resulted in a finding of not criminally responsible on account of mental disorder (with restrictions),
        and whether or not an individual has a sexual offense recorded in their name in Canada for which a pardon has been granted or issued. Required for positions that require significant or unsupervised contact with individuals less than 18 years of
        age, elderly persons or persons with disabilities.
Background Check
In this policy, the term is used to refer generally to any or all of a Criminal Records Check, A Criminal Record and Judicial Matters Check and a Vulnerable Sector Check.
Senior Manager
The college manager at the executive level responsible for the relevant department or function.
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search