All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
3000-3-6 President's Award for Excellence
Responsible Executive
President
Policy Sponsor
Director, Human Resources
Issue Date
April 26, 2007
Supersedes Date
May 20, 2008
Last Review
October 5, 2023
Last Revision
September 11, 2019
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
Policy
The President’s Award for Excellence recognizes a Lambton College employee who has made an outstanding contribution to student and community success, integral to achieving the strategic mission and vision of the College.
Eligibility
All Lambton College employees are eligible for consideration for the Award.
Criteria for Eligibility
The recognition of the College employee under consideration must relate to outstanding contributions to the College or to extracurricular College-related contributions.
The recognition must relate to a sustained contribution that demonstrates a meeting of the following criteria:
innovation or enhancement of the College, or
the provision of exceptional service to the College community, or
the enrichment of College life or College effectiveness, or
enhancement of community understanding or representation of the College, or
significant contribution to the College reputation.
Candidates must have been employed by Lambton College for a minimum of three years.
Members of the Lambton College Senior Leadership Team (SLT) will be ineligible to receive the President’s Award for Excellence while holding office.
Recognition
The President will present the award at the Employee Recognition event.
The recipient will be presented with an individual plaque. The recipient’s name will also be inscribed on a plaque that will be permanently displayed in the College.
A President’s Award for Excellence Scholarship in the amount of $500 will be established to be awarded annually by the current recipient at the annual Awards Luncheon.
The Board of Governors will be informed of the award recipient.
Procedure
Nomination
Nominations will be accepted on an annual basis from all sectors of the College including faculty, staff and administration. A nomination form is available on line.
The form, signed by three nominators and accompanied by a one to two-page narrative, should be submitted, in confidence, to the President and CEO.
All nominations are confidential.
Selection
The nomination is forwarded to Lambton College Excellence Award Selection Committee, which is comprised of 2 support staff, 1 administrative and 2 faculty members and chaired by the Director, Human Resources.
        The Committee will make a recommendation to the President.
The President has the final decision on the President’s Award for Excellence recipient(s).
The Lambton College Excellence Award Committee for reconsideration in the following year may forward some unsuccessful nominations.
The recipient of the President’s Award for Excellence will be notified confidentially one week prior to the Employee Recognition.
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search