All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
3000-3-8 Employee Educational Assistance
Responsible Executive
Senior Vice-President, Strategy & Corporate Services
Policy Sponsor
Dean, Academic Excellence & Teaching Innovation
Issue Date
June 20, 2023
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
Policy
This policy defines the guidelines for tuition reimbursement and educational assistance for eligible employees of Lambton College. This policy is designed to support the professional development and career advancement of employees by providing financial
    assistance for pursuing higher education opportunities that are relevant to their current job or future career goals.
This policy applies to all full-time and part-time employees of Lambton College who have completed a minimum of 6 months of continuous service with the college. It is applied to requests for paid or unpaid release time and tuition reimbursement, including
    any fees for a course, program, or series of academic classes which culminates in a post-secondary certificate or grade being awarded. In order to be eligible for reimbursement under this policy, the course(s) must be related to the employee’s present
    work duties or anticipated career plan at Lambton.
Lambton College Courses
Credit Courses
All eligible employees may enroll in a Lambton College post‐secondary credit course, not including Ontario Learn courses delivered from outside of Lambton College, to be taken on the employee’s own time, for a tuition fee of $20 plus a registration
        fee established by the Registrar. These fees are not eligible for any additional employee reimbursement.
All eligible employees may enroll in a Lambton College post‐secondary credit course delivered through Ontario Learn from another host college for a tuition fee of $20 plus a registration fee established by the Registrar plus the additional Ontario
        Learn costs.
Full‐time support staff members may apply to take one College credit course per semester during the employee’s normal working hours without loss of pay. The employee must apply to and receive written approval from their supervisor for the release
        time to attend the course. One‐half of the approved release time must be made up by the employee in a manner approved, in writing, by the supervisor. The release time may be combined with the reduced fees described above.
The Adult Education Board of Governors Certificate is available to full-time employees and adjunct faculty who have completed the adjunct faculty training and have taught for the College in the current or previous academic year at the reduced rate
        outlined in Item 2. No paid release time is available with this tuition arrangement.
Non-Credit and Non-Post-Secondary Courses
The College may reimburse an eligible employee for the course tuition fee, to a maximum of $50 per course, for any non‐credit course taken at Lambton College. In no case will the reimbursement cause the total cost of the course to the employee to
        be less than $20 plus a registration fee established by the Registrar.
Post-Secondary Courses Outside of Lambton College
All eligible employees may apply for educational assistance through partial tuition reimbursement for post‐secondary courses from an institution other than Lambton College.
To be eligible for reimbursement, the course must:
be taken from an accredited or recognized college, university or professional association,
lead to a post‐secondary certificate, diploma, degree or professional designation,
lead to a credential that aligns with the strategic direction of the College, or the objectives of the employee’s department or School,
be related to the employee’s current position, program, department, or to a related position or program to which the College has indicated its intention to assign the employee, and
support the employee’s development plan.
An eligible employee may apply for reimbursement for up to 100% of the tuition for a single course. On an annual basis, employees will be asked to make every effort to indicate the number of courses for which they will be seeking reimbursement.
Reimbursement will be considered only for pre‐approved courses. Only courses that are completed after the issue of this policy are eligible for consideration.
Reimbursement is for tuition, and compulsory auxiliary fees only (unless books are included in the tuition fee) and not for travel, conferences, seminars, professional memberships, etc.
Reimbursement is paid on a per course basis and only upon submission of evidence of successful completion of the course (normally a grade report) and a tuition receipt.
Educational Assistance reimbursement is subject to a lifetime maximum total reimbursement of $20,000.
Course requirements must be completed outside the regular work schedule of the employee. An eligible employee may apply for release time, without pay, to undertake the course, or may apply for paid release time, which time the employee will make up.
        The employee must apply to and receive written approval from their supervisor for any release time arrangement.
In order to receive reimbursement for a course, the employee must successfully complete the course with a minimum grade of C, or the minimum grade required for completion of the credential sought, whichever is higher.
The employee applying for educational assistance for a post‐secondary course must receive, in writing, approval from their supervisor. The employee will then will forward the approved application to the Dean, Academic Excellence & Teaching Innovation.
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search