All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
3000-3-4 Relocation Assistance
Responsible Executive
Senior Vice-President, Strategy & Corporate Services
Policy Sponsor
Director, Human Resources
Issue Date
February 1, 2017
Supersedes Date
April 21, 2022
Last Review
September 8, 2022
Last Revision
September 8, 2022
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
The College is committed to recruiting and hiring the best possible employees. It recognizes that part of an effective formal recruitment and selection process is appropriate compensation for relocation expenses.
Policy
The College may, at its sole discretion, provide relocation assistance to a new employee when there is a compelling case to relocate the employee’s place of permanent residence, and it is in the interest of the College to provide assistance.
Reimbursement for relocation expenses may be provided for new permanent full-time appointments, or for new temporary, full-time assignments that have an expected duration of twenty-four (24) months or more.
Reimbursement for relocation expenses may be offered to a new employee whose place of residence at the time of appointment to Lambton College is one hundred (100) kilometres or more from the College work location. For relocation expenses to be paid,
        the employee must relocate to Lambton County.
Reimbursement for relocation expenses will be limited to expenses incurred by the employee and legally recognized, immediate family members who currently live with the employee.
If an employee resigns from the College, or is terminated for cause, before completing one (1) year of service with the College, the employee will be required to reimburse the College for all relocation assistance paid by the College.
Determination of eligibility for relocation assistance will reside with the Director, Human Resources, who will consult with the Hiring Manager.
Reimbursement of eligible relocation expenses may not exceed ten percent (10%) of the employee’s starting annual salary. The eligible relocation expenses and the total reimbursement will be determined by the Hiring Manager in consultation with their
        Supervisor and the Director, Human Resources.
Expenses must be submitted within six (6) months of the date of appointment or within two (2) months of the relocation move, whichever time limit is first, unless an extension has been approved by the Director, Human Resources.
        Extensions must be provided in writing and may not exceed one (1) year beyond the date of appointment.
The new employee must pay their own relocation expenses and then submit appropriate, original, and complete receipts and request reimbursement.
The College reserves the right to audit all expense claims submitted for approval for reimbursement.
In instances where the new employee is covered by a Collective Agreement, the Collective Agreement will take precedence.
The hiring manager is responsible for informing the new employee of this policy and its contents, and for acquiring prior written approval from the Director, Human Resources for any deviations from or exceptions to this
        policy before any commitment for reimbursement for relocation expenses is made to a potential or new employee.
Lambton College shall not be liable under any circumstances for any loss, damage, bodily injury, or inconvenience suffered, incurred, or sustained by you or by any member of your immediate family in the course of, or as a result of relocation to Lambton
        County for employment.
The payment of income tax (if applicable) on this allowance will be the employee’s responsibility.
Eligible Expenses
Refer to
Appendix A
Excluded Expenses
Refer to
Appendix B
Repayment Procedures
Refer to
Appendix C
Appendices
Appendix A: Eligible Relocation Expenses
The following expenses are eligible for reimbursement:
Travel expenses, including meals and mileage, required in one-way transit for the employee and their dependents.
Travel requirements, e.g. ticket fares, lodging.
The cost of changing the employee’s address on legal documents, e.g. cost of replacing automobile permits/ownerships and driving licenses.
Packing and shipment expenses for the personal belongings of the employee and their dependents.
The costs of establishing utility connections.
Enroute insurance for the replacement value of the personal belongings of the employee and their dependents.
One (1) month of storage, if required.
Temporary lodgings, up to one (1) month if the occupation date of the new residence is delayed.
Transportation of one (1) personal vehicle.
Real estate and legal fees associated with the sale of the old residence and purchase of a new residence.
Under certain circumstances, employees may feel it is reasonable or necessary to transport their own goods. In these instances, the new employee should discuss the proposed relocation arrangements prior to initiating the arrangements, with the Hiring
        Manager. If the proposed relocation arrangements are approved by the Hiring Manager, the College will reimburse the new employee for out-of-pocket expenses up to the allowable maximum travel allowance per kilometer in effect at the date of travel
        and within the total approved relocation assistance limit.
Travel costs for the employee to visit family if the family is delayed moving with the employee. This cost is included in the total approved relocation assistance limit.
Appendix B: Expenses Ineligible for Reimbursement
The College will not provide reimbursement for the following expenses:
Shipping costs associated with any boat, trailer, or recreational vehicle(s).
Shipment of any livestock, farm or construction supplies or equipment.
Pickup from, or delivery to, a secondary residence or cottage.
Removal or installation of permanently fixed items such as custom cabinetry, lighting fixtures, fencing, patios, fireplaces, etc.
House cleaning, maintenance, or repairs costs.
Any duties incurred at customs.
Shipment of any hazardous materials (e.g. propane tanks, firearms/ammunition, chemicals, liquor, or perishables).
Insurance for any objects of special value (e.g. art, jewelry, precious metals, cash or bonds, antiques, legal documents, or any collection of high monetary value).
Expenses for work completed to make the prior residence more saleable.
Any financial loss from the sale of the prior residence.
Expenses for house hunting trips prior to the move.
The value of items movers refused to take.
Expenses for replacing personal-use items such as a toolshed, firewood, drapes, or carpets.
Purchase of fixtures, appliances, equipment, or materials for new residence.
Tips or gifts to moving company employees.
Mail forwarding costs.
Please Note: Moving expenses that are not covered by the employer may be tax deductible.
Contact
Canada Revenue Agency
to obtain the necessary forms and a definition of what is covered.
Appendix C: Reimbursement Procedures
All approved expenses that are incurred must be documented, and submitted with applicable original receipts to the Hiring Manager for processing as per the
Travel, Meals & Hospitality (4000-1-2) policy
.
Finance Department Claim forms
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search