All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
3000-3-2 Employee Professional Development
Responsible Executive
Senior Vice-President, Strategy & Corporate Services
Policy Sponsor
Dean, Academic Excellence & Teaching Innovation
Issue Date
May 19, 2011
Supersedes Date
June 23, 2021
Replaces
Formerly titled Professional Development
Last Review
June 20, 2023
Last Revision
June 20, 2023
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
Scope
This policy applies to all full-time and part-time faculty and staff employed at Lambton College. Professional development activities may include, but are not limited to, conferences, workshops, seminars, webinars, online courses, certifications, and
        other relevant learning opportunities. This policy does not apply to education or training leading to all or part of a post-secondary credential (see the
Employee Education Assistance (3000-3-8) policy
.)
Policy
Lambton College will provide development opportunities and support to its employees consistent with these principles.
The College seeks to create an environment that encourages professional growth for all employees.
The College will provide an array of opportunities and supports to encourage continuous development among all employees.
The College will provide professional development that is universal for all employees.
The initiative for development comes primarily from the employee.
There will be integration of the performance appraisal process and professional development.
The professional development program will expand the skills and knowledge of all employees.
Professional development will be congruent with College mission, vision, and strategic goals.
Where applicable, the professional development committees, will advise the Dean, Academic Excellence & Teaching Innovation responsible for professional development. The terms of reference for these committees will be established by the Dean and filed
            with the office of the Senior Vice-President, Academic & Student Success, and may be amended from time to time by the Dean.
The Dean, Academic Excellence & Teaching Innovation will establish an annual process, aligned with the College's budget planning cycle, to solicit employee requests for professional development funding.
The Dean, Academic Excellence & Teaching Innovation, in collaboration with the requesting employee's supervisor will make the determination as to the funding request, consistent with the principles set out in section 1 of this policy.
The financial resources available to be awarded per section 3 and 4 of this policy will be determined annually by the College.
Professional Development Provisions Specific to Faculty
Successful completion of the College Educator Development Program (CEDP) is required for all newly hired full-time faculty members. This training will be provided by the College and the employee will be released with pay.
Completion of the Adjunct Teacher Training course is expected of all newly hired adjunct faculty members. The College will provide the training, with payment, to the participating faculty members.
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search