All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
3000-3-7 Dee Cox Leadership in Learning Award
Responsible Executive
Senior Vice-President, Academic & Student Success
Policy Sponsor
Director, Teaching & Learning Commons
Issue Date
September 19, 2013
Supersedes Date
June 30, 2019
Last Review
September 23, 2020
Last Revision
September 23, 2020
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
The Dee Cox Leadership in Learning award recognizes a Lambton College employee or retiree who strives to release the untapped potential of others.
This leadership is exemplified through the support of others in the achievement of positive change, and recognizes that learning is an ongoing process of gaining knowledge in the hopes of realizing a fulfilling life.
Policy
The Dee Cox leadership in Learning award recognizes the coming together of an individual's passion for personal and professional development, and a dedication to enhancing the Lambton College community.
The award will be presented annually.
Should there be no eligible or deserving candidate for this award in a given year, the award will not be granted.
The recipient of the award shall be the employee or retiree who best lives and regularly demonstrates the personal characteristics and skills of Dee Cox.
Characteristics include:
inclusive,
passionate,
believes in diversity,
engaging,
active,
strong moral compass,
integrity,
respect for people, and
adventurous spirit.
Skills include:
Motivates people to take the first step in learning;
Positively contributes to the growth and development of others;
Strives for consistency in excellence;
Personally committed to developing esteem in people;
Works toward developing relationships with others;
Acts as an innovative change agent;
Serves as a trainer, facilitator or consultant for external organizations;
Demonstrates a commitment to community services through leadership roles in the community, citizenship experiences with several organizations, community partnerships, etc.;
Participates in workshops and training sessions sponsored by the college that are focused on the development of professional or vocational skills;
Pursues a higher level of education and professional designation through an accredited institution or association; and
Actively participates on college committees or on college task teams for special projects.
The winner will be determined by an award committee, appointed by the Director, Teaching & Learning Commons, which shall consist of the following:
two deans or directors;
two support staff;
two faculty members; and
one retiree.
The Award
The award shall consist of a plaque and taxable case award of $750 to be used for professional development. The award will be presented at the Employee Recognition Event.
Procedure
The Teaching & Learning Commons will call for and accept nominations from staff, retirees and students.
The deadline for submissions is the last day of October.
Nomination forms must be signed by the nominator. In addition, a maximum of two letters of support must be included.
Forms may be obtained through the
Awards & Recognition section
of mylambton.ca.
Nominations will be considered by the Award Committee.
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search