All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
3000-3-1 Professional Development Leave
Responsible Executive
Senior Vice-President, Strategy & Corporate Services
Policy Sponsor
Dean, Academic Excellence & Teaching Innovation
Issue Date
June 20, 2023
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
Policy
This policy applies to all full-time employees of Lambton College who have completed a minimum of 6 years of continuous service with the college.
The College will provide a Professional Developmental Leave per the collective agreements for Full-Time Academic and Support Staff, and the Terms and Conditions of Employment for Full-Time Administrative Staff.
An eligible employee must make application for a developmental leave to their manager who will then forward the application with recommendations to the Dean, Academic Excellence & Teaching Innovation for a final decision by the divisional Vice-President.
An application for professional development leave will be considered and assessed based on the criteria set out within the respective collective agreement or terms and conditions of employment.
Applications for leaves must be for a period of one year or less, normally commencing July 1 for a 12-month period.
Employees on a professional development leave are eligible for educational assistance.
Employees on a professional development leave are not eligible for further reimbursement of costs, unless a formal request has received the prior approval of the Vice‐President, and exceptional circumstances prevail.
Employees are required to work at the College following the leave pursuant to the terms of the applicable collective agreement or terms and conditions of employment.
The procedures and forms for application for developmental leaves are established, maintained and, from time to time, modified by the Centre for Academic Excellence and Teaching Innovation which will post current procedures and forms on the Teaching
        & Learning Commons pages of the Lambton College website.
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search