All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
3000-3-3 Employee Recognition Program
Responsible Executive
Senior Vice-President, Strategy & Corporate Services
Policy Sponsor
Director, Human Resources
Issue Date
October 1, 2003
Supersedes Date
October 1, 2003
Last Review
April 21, 2022
Last Revision
April 21, 2022
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
Lambton College values the contributions and commitments the employees have on the organization; that their contribution contributes to the overall success of the College and the community. Recognizing employee’s contributions and achievements is integral
    to maintaining a positive and productive working environment. The Employee Recognition program is a way to recognize both full-time and part-time employee(s) efforts, service, outstanding achievements, academic achievements and retirements on a formal
    basis.
Policy
Recognition Event
Lambton College wishes to recognize its employees for their long-standing continuous service and outstanding achievements to the College. This will be presented at the annual Employee Recognition Event which will be hosted by the College once per
            year. Invitations for the Employee Recognition event will be extended to eligible recipients, College employees, and representative(s) from the Board of Governors and retirees.
The President and Board Chair will offer congratulations at the event.
The Recognition Event Committee, chaired by the Manager, Human Resources, shall coordinate the Employee Recognition program including assessment of employee eligibility, awards, retirements and the coordination of the annual event.
At the event, all recipients will receive a service award and, if applicable, the gift which they have selected.
Recognition will be extended to employees who meet the following service criteria:
Ten (10) years
Twenty (20) years
Twenty-five (25) years
Thirty (30) years; and applicable five (5) year anniversaries thereafter
Those who have twenty-five (25) or more years of service will have a short biography read about them as they receive their service award.
Employee Eligibility
Recognition is given for full-time and part-time employees who have continuous service based on the following criteria:
The employee must currently be an active employee.
There cannot be breaks in employment, unless considered to be the nature of the job, or an approved leave of absence.
The following time and contribution will be counted towards years of service:
Academic:
Full-time status
Associate faculty
Support:
Full-time status
Part-time status
Administrative:
Full-time status
Part-time status
Funding and Service Awards
Funding for the formal gift awards is approved on an annual basis through the budget process. Full-time service award recipients will choose a gift card from a vendor in accordance with each years-of-service level as follows:
Ten (10) years: framed certificate of service and appreciation
Twenty (20) years: certificate of service and $100 gift card
Twenty-five (25) years: certificate of service and $150 gift card
Thirty (30) years: certificate of service and $175 gift card
Thirty-five (35) years: certificate of service and $200 gift card
Forty (40) years: certificate of service and $225 gift card
Part time service award recipients will choose a gift card from a vendor in accordance with each years of service level as follows:
Ten (10) years: framed certificate of service and appreciation
Twenty (20) years: certificate of service and $50 gift card
Twenty-five (25) years: certificate of service and $75 gift card
Thirty (30) years: certificate of service and $100 gift card
Thirty-five (35) years: certificate of service and $125 gift card
Forty (40) years: certificate of service and $150 gift card
Recipients that do not wish to receive a gift card will have the option of donating the value of their gift to the Lambton College Foundation, the Lambton College Food Bank, a Lambton College bursary, or a charity of their choice.
Recognition Awards
Lambton College recognizes the following awards at the Employee Recognition Event:
Academic and Special Achievements - to recognize staff who have earned any degree, diploma or certificate.
Criteria: earned five (5) or more courses
Certificate signed by the President that reflects degree, diploma or certificate earned.
Diversity and Equity Award -This award is open to all College employees. Participants will cultivate an appreciation for diversity in a variety of forms, practice listening without judgement to one another’s stories, experience diversity in
                    many areas, reflect on and communicate about changing individual understandings of diversity and its importance
Refer to
TLC webpage
for criteria
Support Staff Leadership Award - This award is designed not simply for succession planning but to offer support staff an opportunity for both personal and professional growth and to recognize the critical role they play in the College’s success.
                    Everyone can be a leader in the workplace and this program is about understanding and utilizing your strengths and unique abilities in pursuit of bettering the environment in which you live and work These awards are only presented in the
                    year that there are recipients.
Refer to
TLC webpage
for criteria
Dee Cox Leadership in Learning Award – Lambton College Employee or retiree who strives to release the untapped potential of others. This award recognizes an individual’s passion for professional development and their dedication to enhancing
                    the Lambton College community
Refer to
TLC webpage
for criteria
President’s Award for Excellence - recognizes a Lambton College employee who has made an outstanding contribution to student and community success, integral to achieving the strategic mission and vision of the College
Refer to
President's Award for Excellence (3000-3-6) policy
Retirement Awards
A retiring employee will be eligible to choose a retirement gift, in a fixed amount, based on years of service. The employee may request a gift certificate from a vendor in the community. Alternatively, if so desired, recipients that do not wish to
            receive a gift card will have the option of donating the value of their gift to the Lambton College Foundation, the Lambton College Food Bank, a Lambton College bursary, or a charity of their choice.
Years of Service
Value Amount
1-19
$100.00
20 or more
$200.00
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search