All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
3000-2-7 Employee Photo Identification Cards
Responsible Executive
Senior Vice-President, Strategy & Corporate Services
Policy Sponsor
Director, Human Resources
Issue Date
May 31, 2016
Supersedes Date
May 31, 2016
Last Review
May 1, 2019
Last Revision
May 1, 2019
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
Employee photo identification cards are issued to College employees in order to provide a safe and secure working environment, evidence of employment with Lambton College, a single, cost-efficient and controlled document that can be used for security,
    building access, library access, and government rates for accommodation and car rentals, and to properly protect the assets and employees of the College.
Policy
It is the policy of Lambton College that all full-time employees have an employee photo identification card.
At a minimum, the card will display the employee name and employee identification number.
All full-time employees are responsible for obtaining a Lambton College Employee Photo Identification Card as part of their orientation to the College community
Each employee must maintain a current and accurate photo identification card while full-time employment continues with the College.
Employee Photo Identification Cards must not be defaced or modified in any way.
Lost, damaged or stolen Employee Photo Identification Cards are the responsibility of the individual.
A lost, damaged or stolen card must be immediately reported to the Facilities Management Office.
A lost, damaged or stolen card must be replaced by the employee, as soon as possible, at the Facilities Management Office for a fee.
If the replacement of a card is necessitated by a change of name or change of identification, no fee will be charged.
Other-than-Full-Time employees who require photo identification for business purposes may make a request, in writing, to the Human Resources department. Requests will be considered and will be at the discretion of the employee’s
        supervisor in consultation with the Human Resources department.
Employee Photo identification cards are the property of Lambton College.
The card must be surrendered to the College upon cessation of employment.
The employee must turn in the Employee Photo Identification Card to the employee’s supervisor upon cessation of employment with Lambton College.
The employee’s supervisor is expected to obtain the Employee Photo Identification Card from the employee leaving the employ of the College and return it to the Facilities Management Office for destruction.
An employee must present the employee photo identification card upon request by a College manager acting in an official capacity or by College Security in the conduct of duties.
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search