All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
4000-4-2 Parking Services
Responsible Executive
Senior Vice-President, Strategy & Corporate Services
Policy Sponsor
Director, Facilities Management
Issue Date
May 22, 2014
Supersedes Date
December 12, 2019
Last Review
October 21, 2022
Last Revision
October 21, 2022
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
This policy is created for the development, implementation, and maintenance of a system for the regulation of parking and traffic on the College property. The system also aligns with legislation, whether federal, provincial or otherwise, related to traffic
        and parking and that is applicable to the College, to College property, or to any activity on College property. The College may supplement applicable legislation with further prohibitions, restrictions, or other requirements considered advisable by
        the College.
Lambton College Parking Services was established to guide the College in the allocation and control of all parking areas; provide transparency in the management of parking facilities; regulate parking of all vehicles; provide efficient and orderly traffic
        movement; ensure effective allocation and usage of College parking facilities.
Lambton College strives to provide parking facilities for all students, employees, and visitors within the constraints of campus space available for parking.
Policy
This policy applies at all times to every person while on College property and to every vehicle entering, on, or exiting College property.
Principles & Standards
While Lambton college is under no legal obligation to provide any parking, the College will endeavour to provide sufficient parking to meet the needs of its students, employees, and visitors. However, available campus space and operational restrictions
            may limit the number of parking spaces provided and available.
Parking is not provided at all campus locations. Where Lambton College owned/operated lots do not exist, the College assumes no responsibility for providing parking for staff and students.
Lambton College cannot and does not guarantee the availability of a parking space for any would-be user at any time.
The College property is private property of the College. The College maintains and may exercise full jurisdiction and control over all vehicles parked on College property of using the campus roadways. The College reserves the right to take action
            that it sees fit for violations occurring on College property, including without limitation, in parking lots and on campus roadways. The College shall have the right to obstruct or close access to the College property, in whole or in part, including
            parking lots or parking spaces, and control or restrict pedestrians or vehicular traffic entering on, circulating, or operating within and exiting from College property and for vehicles parking on College property.
The College is not responsible for damage, destruction to, or any theft or loss of any property, including any vehicle or the contents of any vehicle, or for any injury to or death of any person, howsoever causes. Individuals should report any loss,
            damage, or injury to Parking Services.
Vehicle operators are required to comply with all parking and traffic rules and regulations of the College or any authority having jurisdiction enforceable on the College, on activities on College property or at the municipal location of the Colleg
            property and may be subject to the fines, penalties, disciplinary and legal actions for parking and driving violations, including those identified in
Appendix A: Parking Violations, Fines & Penalties
.
The registered owner of a vehicle will be responsible for any violation involving the vehicle.
Parking Categories
The College shall establish various parking categories as it determines to be required. These will include, but are not limited to:
General - these parking spaces are available for all vehicles parking on campus – employees, students, and visitors - subject to availability and payment of parking fee.
Employee - these parking spaces are restricted to current employees with the appropriate permit.
Work study, co-op and other students employed at the College do not qualify for employee parking spaces.
Retirees will have a complimentary parking pass, in perpetuity, upon retirement. Retirees may submit one vehicle license plate to Parking Services. Sharing of this permit is prohibited and may be revoked at the discretion of the College.
Accessible Parking - these parking spaces are restricted to individuals who have the required designations or permits (Lambton College parking permit and a valid Ontario Accessible Parking Permit.)
Temporary Accessible Parking - these parking spaces are for permit holders who are waiting for their Ontario Accessible Parking Permit. Users can apply for limited use of these spaces through Parking Services.
Electric Vehicle Charging Stations - these spaces are for permit holders to charge their electric vehicles. Vehicle charging fees may apply and may change at the discretion of the College at any time.
Special Parking Arrangements
Service vehicles and contractors’ vehicles will be assigned a specific parking location by Parking Services.
Departments within the College wishing to arrange guest parking paid for through a departmental charge can do so by notifying Parking Services. A manager’s approval is required for all departmental charge transactions.
Parking arrangements for special events taking place at the College can be made through Parking Services.
Parking Fees
Lambton College will charge a fee to users of its parking facilities.
The fee charged may vary with the parking facility provided, the duration of the parking, the period covered by the fee, and any other consideration that the College deems appropriate.
The College will review annually the parking fees and may change any or all fees at its discretion.
In order to charge the parking fee, the College may use a variety of methods that may be changed from time to time at the discretion of the College.
Individuals and groups who come onto College property to use College services shall be considered visitors and will be required to pay the applicable parking fee.
Pay-By-Plate Parking
Access to the parking facilities may be purchased through pay-by-plate payment, either online through the Parking Services website before arrival or at one of the pay-by-plate payment kiosks inside the College. License plates must be always visible
            and clear from obstruction as per the Ministry of Ontario guidelines.
A limited number of one term, two term and annual permits may be purchased through the pay-by-plate payment, either online through the Parking Services website before arrival or at one of the pay-by-plate payment kiosks inside the College.
Failure to register a vehicle and provide payment for the parking period will result in a parking violation.
Individuals owning more than one vehicle may register up to four vehicle license plates on their parking account. A parking permit is valid for only one of the registered vehicles parking on site at one time. If more than one registered vehicle is
            being parked on site at the same time, an additional parking permit is required for the additional vehicle.
Refund of Parking Fees
Parking Services will provide parking refunds on a limited basis.
Daily and monthly permits are non-refundable.
For term or annual permits, refunds for parking may be requested up to the deadline specified in the
Registration (2000-1-2)
policy. If the request for refund occurs after the time specified by the
Registration (2000-1-2)
policy, no refund will be
            issued after this date. Academic Withdrawal dates will be posted to the College website. A refund processing fee of $25 will be applied and deducted from all refunds.
Permit refunds may be obtained from the Parking Services office during business hours upon presentation of the paid receipt.
Refunds for permits purchased will be issued to the permit holder and refunded on the card used for purchase. There are no cash refunds.
The refund amount will first be directly applied to any outstanding balances for unpaid parking violations on the individuals parking account, and the balance, if any, will be refunding on the card used for purchase.
During a prolonged College emergency closure, parking permits may be refunded on a prorated basis based on the number of days the College charges for parking at the discretion of management.
In the case of extenuating circumstances, a refund may be approved by either the Director, Facilities Management in consultation with the Director, Human Resources, or Associate Vice-President, Student Success or designate contingent on the circumstance. Circumstances
            are reviewed on a case-by-case basis for approval of refund.
Violations and Penalties
By parking in Lambton College parking lots, users further consent and give permission to the Ontario Ministry of Transportation to provide all registered owner information to Lambton College and its agents for the vehicle you are driving for the purpose
            of collecting unpaid parking fees. In addition to the unpaid parking fees, there will be a $32 fee for any vehicle that the College or its agents has to search for vehicle owner information.
By parking in Lambton College parking lots, and in accordance with the City of Sarnia's Traffic and Parking By-Law #100 or 1996 any person found to be parking on Lambton College property with an unregistered vehicle is in contravention of this by-law
            and are subject to penalties under the provisions of the Provincial Offences Act and your account will be sent to collections.
Failure to comply with this policy, including without limitation, all parking and traffic rules and regulations of the College or any authority having jurisdiction enforceable on the College, on activities on College property or at the municipal location
            of the College property shall result in the College issuing a violation notice which may result in any or all of the following actions by the College:
Issuance of a ticket,
the tow away, impoundment, and storage of the vehicle at the owner's sole risk, expense, and liability,
revoking of parking privileges,
the application of the
Student Rights & Responsibilities & Discipline (2000-5-1)
or
 the
Employee Discipline (3000-2-3)
policies,
the invocation of general law, including the Highway Traffic Act, the Trespass to Property Act and the City of Sarnia Parking By-Laws.
If a vehicle is towed, impounded, and stored by the College, such actions are at the owner's sole risk, expense, and liability. All costs and charges associated with the towing of a vehicle from College property shall be the responsibility of the
            registered owner and/or operator of the vehicle removed from College property. No liability shall be attached to Lambton College or its agents for any damage caused during the towing operation. The College does not assume any responsibility or
            liability whatsoever for any damage, destruction, theft, or loss of any property, including a vehicle or the contents of a vehicle, or for injury or death of a person, howsoever caused from the towing, impoundment, or storage of a vehicle. Towing
            charges are in addition to any other fines or other sanctions levied by the College for violations under this policy.
Upon the issue of a violation notice:
the vehicle is subject to be towed,
parking privileges may be suspended.
Suspension of parking privileges will only be lifted upon successful appeal.
Vehicles with three (3) unpaid parking violation notices, or an accumulated total of $100 in outstanding fines will not be granted parking privileges until payment of all fines. Vehicles parked on College property with an accumulated total of $150
            in fines may be towed at the owner's expense subject to terms and conditions outlined in section 28 of this policy. Where applicable, the outstanding parking fees will be placed on the individual's college account. An email notice will be sent
            to the individual and the College will withhold documentation (e.g. transcripts) or registration in future terms until all unpaid balances are paid in full. Unpaid balances may be sent to collections.
An appeal of a Parking Violation Notice can be made online through the
Parking Services website
.
Appeals
An individual may appeal a Parking Violation Notice, within five (5) business days of the date on which the Parking Violation Notice was issued, online at the Parking Services website.
Ignorance of the Parking Policy is not grounds for appeal.
Appeals that do not comply with the above requirements will not be considered. An appellant will be notified of the appeal decision via email at the email address used to purchase parking. No appeal of this decision is permitted.
General
Persons using College parking facilities, where paid parking is in effect, must register their vehicle license plate and pay a parking fee for pay-by-plate parking lots for the duration of time parking occurs.
It is the permit holder’s responsibility to provide Parking Services with current vehicle registration information.
All motor vehicles using College parking facilities must be properly licensed and insured.
Operators of motor vehicles on College property must have a valid driver’s license.
It is the responsibility of the registered owner of any vehicle parked on Lambton College property to ensure that the vehicle is properly maintained so that fluids including gasoline, diesel fuel, motor oil, hydraulic fluid and coolant do not escape
            into the environment.
All costs and expenses incurred by the College in removing the offending vehicle and in undertaking any property or environmental clean up, remediation, or restoration shall be the responsibility of the registered owner.
A vehicle left on College property for a continuous period of 72 hours will be considered abandoned and towed away at the owner's expense subject to the terms and conditions contained in section 27 of this policy unless Parking Services is notified.
Bicycle and e-bike parking areas are provided on College property and riders are required to use these facilities. Bicycles and e-bikes parked in other than designated areas may be immobilized or removed.
Any person who causes wilful or malicious damage to parking equipment, signage or grounds shall be liable for the cost of restoration and/or actions under the student or employee discipline policies and/or the law.
The College reserves the right to adjust or re-allocate parking privileges, temporarily or permanently, in any area for special events, emergencies or ongoing construction.
This policy and traffic laws and regulations are applicable year round. The College shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to supplement, revise, or replace, in whole or in part, this policy.
All drivers must reduce speed when traveling on sanded or slippery College roads.
All persons operating a vehicle on Lambton College property must obey the directions, signage and signals located in the parking lots and roadways.
During the winter months there will be occasions when snow and ice will cover roads, walkways, and parking surfaces located on the College property despite the best efforts of the College to maintain these areas. During these times, this policy will
            be fully enforced. Drivers must ensure that their vehicles are in a legal space and not blocking or obstructing pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
Appendix A
A warning will be issued first for each violation. The following fines and penalties shall apply for all subsequent violations:
Parking Violations, Fines & Penalties
Violation
Penalty
Parking in a non-designated area, such as any service, emergency, or loading zone, fire route, fire hydrant, bus stop, roadway, lane, walkway, or any grassed, or landscaped area
$55 fine + tow
Refund processing fee
$25
Ministry of Transportation vehicle search
$32
Failing to register vehicle license plate online in pay-by-plate parking lots
$35 fine
Failing to pay for parking
$35 fine
Failing to park in accordance with lot layout
$35 fine
Blocking or obstructing roads, walkways, other parking spaces, etc.
$35 fine
Failing to obey regulatory signs
$35 fine
Parking '3 deep' in lots (blocking vehicles and/or roadway)
$35 fine + tow
Parking in a designated accessible area without valid permit
$150 fine + suspension of privileges + tow
Supplying false information to obtain parking privileges
$150 fine + suspension of privileges + tow
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search