All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
4000-4-1 College & Campus Emergency Closures
Responsible Executive
Senior Vice-President, Strategy & Corporate Services
Policy Sponsor
Director, Facilities Management
Issue Date
October 19, 1991
Supersedes Date
March 31, 2019
Last Review
November 17, 2022
Last Revision
December 12, 2019
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
Policy
The college is open every day with the exception of the December holidays. From time to time, severe weather or other emergency conditions may arise that may require the closure of the college or a campus.
When the college or campus is closed, the following applies:
Classes, labs and all other activities are cancelled
Meetings and other scheduled events are cancelled or postponed
Tests, examinations, and other evaluations are postponed
Employees, other than those designated as essential, are not required to attend work
In the event of a college or main campus closure, the residence will remain open unless specifically directed to close by the President or designate.
The decision to cancel classes or close the college or campus will be communicated immediately to the college community.
When a decision to close the college or campus has been made, all of the respective college buildings will be secured.
Decision
The decision to cancel classes, to close a building, facility and/or campus, is made by the college President in consultation with the Senior Vice-President, Strategy & Corporate Services, or designate, in consultation with one, or all of the following:
Director, Facilities Management
Senior Vice-President, Academic & Student Success
Associate Dean, Fire School; Dean, Technology & Trades
Manager, Employment Ontario Programs & Community Employment Services
In the event of inclement weather or other emergencies in which large numbers of students may be absent, the college may remain open but with classes, labs and all other activities cancelled and/or tests, examinations and other evaluations postponed.
            This decision lies with the Senior Vice-President, Academic & Student Success and the Senior Vice-President, Strategy & Corporate Services, or designates.
Any decision to re-open the college or campus for the balance of the day or the evening should be made and communicated in conjunction with the same individuals as above.
Timing of Closure/Re-Opening Decisions
The decision to close the college or campus may be made at any time in the face of developing circumstances.
The decision not to open the college or a campus on a particular day normally will be made prior to 6 a.m. The decision to close for the evening or to cancel evening classes normally will be made prior to 4 p.m.
Essential Services
Some employee positions may be designated as essential. For the purposes of this policy, essential services are those necessary to enable the college to ensure the health and safety of the college community, preservation or protection of college assets and minimization of environmental damage.
Executive Management is responsible for advising staff within their area of responsibility of their status in providing essential service.
Designated essential employees are required to remain at work or report to work as soon as possible in the event the college or a campus is closed.
Employees Working off College Property during Emergency Closure
Employees working off college property, such as hospitals, clinics, or agencies, will be subject to the decision of those workplaces concerning closure irrespective to the college decision. When those workplaces are closed, employees are expected to
            report to the college when the college remains open.
Employee Compensation during an Emergency Closure
For matters concerning the compensation of employees arising from the closure of the college or a campus, see the
Employee Compensation during an Emergency Closure (3000-2-10)
policy.
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search