All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
4000-3-7 Equipment Used on Campus
Responsible Executive
Senior Vice-President, Strategy & Corporate Services
Policy Sponsor
Director, Facilities Management
Issue Date
May 15, 2019
Supersedes Date
June 18, 2009
Last Review
May 15, 2019
Last Revision
May 15, 2019
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
Purpose
To eliminate the potential for injuries due to unsafe use or handling of equipment, materials or tools used on Campus
Policy
The primary responsibility for the inspection, maintenance, and safekeeping of College equipment, materials or tools rests with the respective department supervisor.
Supervisors must ensure that equipment, materials or tools are kept in a safe operating condition and routine preventative maintenance is established, performed and completed.
All employees using equipment, materials or tools on campus must be competent workers*.
All use, storage, and handling of equipment, materials or tools must be consistent with the requirements outlined in the Occupational Health & Safety Act and Regulations, standards applicable to the workplace, and manufacturer guidelines.
Equipment, materials or tools purchased, or made or modified within the workplace, must be approved by the Canadian Standards Association (CSA) or other recognized associations such as Electrical Safety Authority (ESA), Underwriters Laboratories Inc.
        (UL), and conform with any Federal or Provincial requirements.
Consideration must be given to regulatory compliance and standard industry safety practices at the design stage, in the purchase specifications, during construction or installation phases, before a process change, or before an equipment purchase.
Manufacturer guidelines and operator safety manuals and instructions shall be retained and made available to equipment users.
Standard Operating Procedures shall be written by the supervisor, or designate, for work or use of equipment, materials or tools having the potential to cause critical injury and/or occupational illness.
Supervisors must ensure a pre-start health and safety review, per Section 7 of the Regulations for Industrial Establishments, is complete, if required.
All borrowed, rented or owned equipment, materials or tools used in a department must be properly inspected prior to each use by the operator.
All used or donated equipment, materials or tools brought on site must have an operating manual and/or any information available on its condition prior to its use on Campus.
All equipment, materials or tools used for instruction purposes must be thoroughly inspected by the instructor or lab tech and meet all certification standards.
Non-certified equipment must be labelled accordingly when used for demonstration purposes.
It is the responsibility of the client or contractor to ensure that all employee-supplied equipment, materials or tools meet the requirements of the Occupational Health & Safety Act as described in the terms and conditions of the contract with the
        College.
Small appliances (e.g. kettles, space heaters, toasters, microwaves, etc.) used in the workplace must be approved by Facilities Management.
Definitions
Competent Person
is qualified because of knowledge, training and experience to perform the work
is familiar with the Occupational Health & Safety Act and with the provisions of the regulations that apply to the work, and
has knowledge of all potential or actual danger to health or safety in the work.
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search