All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
4000-6-8 Library Services
Responsible Executive
Senior Vice-President, Academic & Student Success
Policy Sponsor
Director, Teaching & Learning Commons
Issue Date
December 17, 2009
Supersedes Date
March 31, 2016
Replaces
Formerly titled Library Resource Centre
Last Review
June 2, 2021
Last Revision
June 2, 2021
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
In support of the College mission, the Teaching & Learning Commons (TLC) recognizes its role as an integral part of the College instructional program. In fulfilling its role as a support service to the College and its academic programs Library Services
        within the TLC strive to:
serve the academic programs by providing access to resources that support the College curriculum;
stimulate the intellectual development of students, staff, faculty and alumni;
motivate students to acquire life‐long learning and reading skills;
assist faculty in maintaining awareness of current information resources and information literacy skills; and
maintain the Lambton College Archives.
Policy
Library Services within the Teaching & Learning Commons (TLC) are dedicated to providing the Lambton College community with access to print, audio/visual and electronic resources relevant to the program and courses offered at the College.
The TLC holdings are meant primarily for the use of the students, faculty, employees, retirees and alumni of Lambton College who may use them either in the TLC or borrow them for use off site in accordance with borrowing privileges.
Other patrons may use the materials in the TLC only, space permitting, unless they qualify for borrowing privileges.
The College requires that print and non‐print resources be centralized in the TLC collection. No department may establish its own collections of resources. Centralization avoids duplication of resources and unnecessary expense,and provides bibliographic
            control of resources. It also makes it possible to extend the use of all resources to the entire College community.
The Lambton College Archives, as part of the TLC, will acquire archival material that serves the long‐term administrative and legal needs of the College, and private archives that support the research needs of the College community.
The Director, in consultation with the employees of the TLC, shall establish, maintain, and amend departmental policies and regulations pertaining to Collection Development and Circulation as required.
In any instance where the TLC policies, rules or regulations conflict with the policies, rules or regulations established by the College, the College policies, rules or regulations shall take precedence.
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search