All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
4000-3-5 Disclosure of Information in the Event of an Emergency
Responsible Executive
Senior Vice-President, Strategy & Corporate Services
Policy Sponsor
Director, Human Resources
Issue Date
September 18, 2008
Supersedes Date
September 18, 2008
Last Review
January 16, 2020
Last Revision
January 16, 2020
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
Personal information is protected by Ontario’s privacy and access laws. These protections are not intended to stand in the way of the disclosure of vital, and in some cases, lifesaving information in emergency or other situations.
(1)
Policy
In the event that an employee or student experiences a serious medical emergency or presents a serious threat of danger to self or others, the College may disclose personal information about a student or employee to appropriate health or security
        agencies or to immediate family members.
Immediate family will be contacted only in situations of extreme urgency following consultation between two authorized college administrators at the Dean/Director level or above.
Individuals authorized to permit disclosure of personal information include and are limited to the following:
All members of the Senior Leadership Team
Deans
Registrar
Associate Vice-President, Student Services
Director, Facilities Management
Director, Human Resources
Manager, Student Housing & Conference Services
Nurse/Medical Staff
Any disclosure of personal information must be documented in the student's file on the Student Record System, or in the Employee Personnel files held by the Human Resources Department, and written notification must be provided to the student or employee
        as soon as possible.
Reference
(1) Cavoukian, Ann, Information and Privacy Commissioner/Ontario. Fact Sheet – Disclosure of Information Permitted in Emergency or other Urgent Circumstances. No. 7, July 2005
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search