All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
4000-5-5 Smoke Free Campus
Responsible Executive
Senior Vice-President, Strategy & Corporate Services
Policy Sponsor
Director, Facilities Management
Issue Date
May 1, 2019
Supersedes Date
May 1, 2019
Replaces
Former policy titled Tobacco Policy
Last Review
May 1, 2019
Last Revision
May 1, 2019
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
Lambton College recognizes the health hazards associated with smoking and exposure to second-hand smoke and is committed to ensuring a healthy working and learning environment for the College Community. This policy applies to all employees, students,
    contractors, clients, volunteers, and members of the general public visiting the College.
Policy
Smoking is prohibited at Lambton College. This includes College grounds and all buildings or structures owned, rented or leased by Lambton College.
Smoking is prohibited in personal vehicles on College property and in vehicles owned, rented or leased by Lambton College.
Lambton College recognizes that the traditional use of tobacco forms Indigenous culture and spirituality and involves smoking or holding lighted tobacco as well as the burning of sweetgrass, sage and cedar (as provided under the Smoke-Free Ontario
            Act, 2017). These uses of tobacco, etc. on College property should be coordinated with and approved by the Director, Facilities Management or delegate.
Lambton College does not condone and will not permit the promotion, advertising, or sale of any tobacco product, vapour product or prescribed product or substance on College property. In addition, corporate tobacco sponsorship of College events or
            groups is prohibited.
Individuals smoking in areas surrounding College property are expected to avoid littering, and are reminded to respect municipal by-laws and provincial legislation. Individuals are asked to be considerate of neighbouring residents, businesses and
            institutions.
Non-compliance
All individuals, whether students, employees, contractors, clients, volunteers, and members of the general public visiting the College, who are in violation of this policy are required to provide a valid student, employee or government issued identification
            on request from College Security.
Failure to abide by this policy will result in progressive protocols as set out in Appendix A.
Failure to abide by places defined in the Smoke-Free Ontario Act may result in personal fines enforced by Tobacco Enforcement Officers (Provincial Offences Officers with authority to enforce the Smoke-Free Ontario Act, 2017).
Definitions
Cannabis
means a cannabis as described in the Canadian Cannabis Act
College Community
All students, employees, contractors, clients, volunteers, and member of the general public visiting the college
College Property
Any property, including grounds and buildings or structures and vehicles owned, rented or leased by Lambton College
eCigarette
means a vaporizer or inhalant-type device, whether called an electronic cigarette or any other name, that contains a power source and heating element designed to heat a substance and produce a vapour intended to be inhaled by the user of the device
            directly through the mouth, whether or not the vapour contains nicotine
Flavoured tobacco product
Includes a tobacco product that is represented as being flavoured, that contains a flavouring agent or that is presented by its packing, by advertisement or otherwise as being flavoured
Smoking
means smoking (inhaling and exhaling) tobacco or other materials and holding lit tobacco or other materials intended for smoking; includes cannabis* and all types of e-cigarettes*, vapour products or any other implement or device used to emulate the
            act of smoking, which involves the production of any airborne contaminants or substances, including the use of pipes, water pipes, hookahs, holders, or other instruments used for similar purposes
Tobacco product
means any product that contains tobacco or flavoured tobacco, and includes the package in which tobacco is sold
Vapour product
means an electronic cigarette, an esubstance, or any component of an electronic cigarette and includes the package in which the electronic cigarette, esubstance or component is sold
Appendix A: Protocols for Non-Compliance
Employees
Warning from college security;
Progressive disciplinary action through the
Employee Discipline (3000-2-3) policy
Students
Warning from college security;
$100 fine;
or, Disciplinary action through the
Student Rights & Responsibilities & Discipline (2000-5-1) policy
- an additional $50 administration fee applies to those opting to appeal (refundable should the appeal be upheld)
Contractors, Clients, Volunteers, Members of the general public visiting the college
Warning from college security;
Banned from college property
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search