All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
4000-5-13 Use of College Name & Insignia
Responsible Executive
President
Policy Sponsor
Senior Vice-President, Strategy & Corporate Services
Issue Date
May 24, 2018
Last Review
May 24, 2018
Last Revision
May 24, 2018
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
Upon request, the College will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
This policy has drawn on and duplicated portions of policies at Harvard University, Algonquin College, Carnegie Mellon University, University of Pennsylvania, Vanier College.
The perception that stakeholder groups, as well as the general public, have of Lambton College is influenced by how the College presents itself.  All members of the College and the institution as a whole benefit when its name is well used, and suffer
    when it is ill used.
The College regulates the use of its name, the names of its schools and programs, its brand, shield and related insignia and trademarks to ensure that such use is related to the educational, service and research missions of the College and promotes its
    objectives.
Policy
The College maintains a legitimate interest in the control and use of its name, brand and insignia.
The College has a responsibility to ensure that any implied association with the College is accurate.
The College has a responsibility to ensure that the activities with which it is accurately associated maintain standards consistent with its educational purposes.
The College has a responsibility to protect its assets by seeking a fair share of the economic value that the use of the Lambton name produces.
This policy applies to all College departments and activities, including the College Foundation and Alumni Association, employees and students, institutional partners, and external agencies and identities associated with the College.
College Corporate Identity
The senior marketing administrator has delegated authority to oversee the College brand management and corporate identity program, including review, update and management of the Brand Guide.
All Lambton College organizational units will maintain a positive and consistent corporate image that promotes Lambton College and reflects its high standards.
All applications of the College corporate image must adhere to the guidelines presented in the College Brand Guide and any supporting documents to which it refers.  This manual defines use of brand elements such as the College name, logo, icon, photography,
        colours and graphics, and College parent, sub and endorsed brands across the various media.
Use of Name & Insignia by College Programs & Individuals
Programs, Services & Activities
College names and insignia may be used in connection with any approved College academic program and associated services.
A Lambton College program, administrative department or officially authorized activity of a program or department must display the name Lambton College in all references and promotion used outside the immediate College community.
Notwithstanding the above edict to use the Lambton College name for bona fide Lambton activities, organizers of such activities being developed by a Lambton College program or administrative department must ensure that the activity is in fact
                bona fide (i.e. approved and known as approved within the community.)
College units, faculty, staff and student organizations that wish to use the College name or insignia in connection with any non-academic College program, activity, service or product must obtain the approval of the President of the College before
        proceeding.
The President will review the proposed use and determine, in consultation with appropriate colleagues, whether it is properly related to the College’s missions and whether the benefits of the proposed use outweigh any risks associated with
                the use.
The President may approve the proposed use, with or without conditions, or disapprove the proposed use.
Use by Individuals & Groups
Lambton College recognizes the interest of individuals and groups who wish to work as citizens through political and community channels for the betterment of society.  However, the College as a college is, and must remain, and must be seen as, neutral
        on political issues.
Employees, like any other citizens, have the right to express their thinking on public issues and to make it known to others. In doing so, however, they have the responsibility to make clear that they are expressing their individual views
                and to guard against giving the impression that they are speaking for the College.
When they present their views to the public, they may identify themselves by their respective title and the name of this institution if they wish to do so, but the fact that they are expressing personal views should nevertheless be made obvious.
College faculty, staff and students may refer to their affiliation or status with the College in connection with personal activities, including consulting, provided that the affiliation or status is accurately represented and any title or position
        is accurately identified, and provided that such use does not imply College endorsement of the activity. In some cases, a disclaimer of College endorsement may be required.
The College name or insignia must not be used in any announcement, advertising matter, publication, correspondence, or report in connection with personal or non-college activities if such use in any way could be construed as implying College endorsement
        of or responsibility for any project, product, or service.
Faculty & Staff Titles
Individuals may use their faculty or staff titles and the Lambton College name for identification for scholarly or academic purposes. Such identification may not imply institutional support or endorsement.
Use of a faculty or staff title and the Lambton College name in connection with any political, community or philanthropic activity must clearly indicate that it is solely for identification purposes and does not imply institutional support or endorsement.
Use of a faculty or staff title and the Lambton College name for any commercial purpose is not permitted.  A faculty or staff member may not use his or her title or position name for purposes of advertising, promoting or otherwise furthering any private,
        professional or commercial activity, or private or non-College fundraising.
Athletic & Competition Teams & Individuals
Any group or individual from faculty, staff or students who wishes to use the name Lambton College in competition or on uniforms or insignia must receive approval from the President of the College. The President will consult with the Lambton College
        Athletics personnel.
Use of Name by External Agencies
The College name or insignia may be used on products or in connection with services offered by outside entities only with the permission of the President.
Outside agencies found to be using the College name or insignia without the explicit permission of the College will be requested or directed by the College to cease and desist from doing so.
Sponsors
Outside sponsors of College programs or activities may, on occasion, seek to use College names or insignia in promotional or advertising materials. While the College is pleased to recognize the contributions of sponsors, such recognition must not
        suggest College endorsement of the sponsor’s activities.  Therefore, College names or insignia may not be used in connection with any outside entity’s name or logo without prior approval of the President of the College.
In general, the President will approve uses that recognize or acknowledge the sponsor’s contribution to the College, its programs or activities.
Uses which, in the President’s judgment, may suggest College endorsement or approval of the sponsor’s goods or services will not be permitted.
Solicitations & Fundraising
Soliciting for Lambton College Activities & Projects
Any group or individual from faculty, staff or students raising funds, including through the sale of goods or services, within Lambton College and/or outside the College, to support College activities or projects, must seek and receive approval from
        the President, or designate,  for the use of the Lambton College name prior to soliciting.
Soliciting for External Charities
Any group or individual from faculty, staff or students raising funds, including through the sale of goods or services, within Lambton College and/or outside the College, to support an external charity, organization or initiative of any type, must
        seek and receive approval from the President, or designate,  for the use of the Lambton College name prior to soliciting.
Use of Institutional Letterhead & Insignia
Use of the institutional letterhead is restricted to communications that pertain to College business or related academic purposes.
Accordingly, institutional letterheads may not be used for personal communications, including but not limited to such things as letters to the editor, solicitations for charities, political endorsements or petitions, commercial endorsements
                or advertisements, or correspondence relating to volunteer work.
Use of one’s academic or staff title is, however, permitted in any of those communications as part of the faculty or staff member’s signature for identification purposes, subject to the restraints outlined in this policy.
Inclusion of the College Name or Insignia with other Names & Insignia
Inclusion of the name(s) of any other institution or organization as part of the Lambton College letterhead or any insignia requires approval by the President.
Inclusion of the name or any insignia of Lambton College as part of the letterhead or insignia of another institution or organization requires the approval of the President.
College Websites & Domain Name
College websites and webpages are not to be used for commercial purposes or for activities not related to the purposes of the College without the prior approval of the President.
Inclusion of a link from the College website, or pages within the College website, to a website of a commercial nature or for commercial or political purposes requires the approval of the President.
Placement of a commercial logo or trademark on the College website requires approval of the President.
Unauthorized use of the College’s registered Internet domain name(s), including all sub-domains, is forbidden.
The registration or purchase of a domain name(s) for a College department, activity or promotion must not be undertaken without the prior approval of the President.
The approved registration or purchase of a domain name must be undertaken and completed through, and with the approval of, the director of the IT Department.
The structure, layout, presentation, etc. of the new domain must be consistent with the Brand Guide and any direction provided by the senior marketing administrator.
Reservation of the Right to Retract or Amend
The College and the President reserve the right, without limit or restriction, to rescind, annul or alter approvals, permissions, agreements or arrangements provided under this policy.
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search