All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
4000-3-4 Assessing & Addressing Violence
Responsible Executive
Senior Vice-President, Strategy & Corporate Services
Policy Sponsor
Director, Facilities Management
Issue Date
March 11, 2020
Supersedes Date
October 16, 2008
Last Review
March 11, 2020
Last Revision
February 28, 2020
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
Policy
Lambton College will not tolerate any form of workplace violence or any situation that places a member of the College community in a position that may jeopardize their personal safety on College property or during any College activity.
All individuals are responsible for maintaining, promoting, and contributing to a safe work and educational environment.
The College will assess, and reassess as often as is necessary, the risks of workplace violence which may arise from the nature of the workplace, the type of work or the conditions of work.
The College will establish measures and procedures to control the risks identified in the assessment.
The College will advise the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee, or Health and Safety Representative, if any, of the results of the assessment, and provide a copy if the assessment is in writing.
The College will ensure measures and procedures for summoning immediate assistance when an act of workplace violence occurs or is likely to occur.
The College will ensure measures and procedures for reporting incidents of workplace violence.
The College will investigate and deal with incidents or complaints of workplace violence quickly, fairly, and effectively.
If the College becomes aware, or ought reasonably to be aware, that domestic violence that would likely expose an employee to physical injury may occur in the workplace, the College will take every precaution reasonable in the circumstances for the
        protection of the worker.
The College will provide information and instruction regarding workplace violence.
Confidentiality
Lambton College has a duty to provide personal information related to a risk of workplace violence from a person with a history of violent behaviour if:
The worker can be expected to encounter that person in the course of their work, and
The risk of workplace violence is likely to expose the worker to physical injury
The College shall not disclose more personal information in the circumstances than is reasonably necessary to protect the worker from physical injury.
Sanctions
Documented and substantiated situations of workplace violence may result in disciplinary action according to the Employee Discipline Policy, Students Rights and Responsibilities and Discipline Policy, other appropriate College policies, or through
        police action.
Where a person believes that their personal safety may be at risk, the College reserves the right to issue a Notice of Trespass, during and at the conclusion of any investigation and/or resolution, to an individual(s) alleged to have committed an
        act of workplace violence.
All employees and students of the College community are required to participate in College proceedings related to this policy as part of their contractual obligation with the College and are encouraged to participate in any criminal investigation/proceeding
        conducted by the police and courts. However, it does not preclude the right of the College or an individual to seek other legal options.
It is understood, that the College and all members of the College community may continue to exercise their pre-existing legal rights without recourse to this policy.
Definitions
Workplace Violence
the exercise of physical force by a person against a worker, in a workplace, that causes or could cause physical injury to the worker;
an attempt to exercise physical force against a worker, in a workplace, that could cause physical injury to the worker;
a statement or behaviour that it is reasonable for a worker to interpret as a threat to exercise physical force against the worker, in a workplace, that could cause physical injury to the worker.
Procedures
For emergency assistance, contact College Emergency Services at x 3333 or call 9-1-1.
Employees
Reporting Workplace Violence
Employees will report any threats, attempts or exercised acts of workplace violence that place themselves or any other member of the college community in an unsafe situation to security and their supervisor and submit
an incident report form
.
Resolution Process
The Director, Human Resources or designate will investigate the complaint and provide the employee member with a report of their investigation within two weeks of receiving the initial complaint. If additional actions are necessary, the Director,
                Human Resources or designate will update the complainant as the complaint process develops.
Students
Reporting Violence
Students must report any threats, attempts or exercised acts of violence that place themselves or any other member of the College community in an unsafe situation to their instructor, Registrar or the Dean and submit an
incident report form
.
Students on Placement
Students on co-op or field placement, practicum, clinical experience, etc. that require workplace experience must report threats, attempts or exercised acts of violence that placed themselves or any other member of the community in an unsafe
                situation to their employer, co-op consultant, supervising faculty member, or program coordinator accordingly. Students employed by or placed at Lambton College are considered employees of Lambton College and must also follow employee
                reporting requirements.
Resolution Process
The Dean or Registrar will investigate the complaint and provide the student with a report of their investigation within two weeks of receiving the initial complaint. If additional actions are necessary, the Dean or Registrar will update the
                complainant as the complaint process develops.
Contractors & Members of the Public
Reporting Violence
Contractors and members of the public must report any threats, attempts or exercised acts of violence that place themselves or any other member of the College community in an unsafe situation to security or Facilities Management.
Resolution
The Director, Facilities Management or designate will investigate the complaint and provide the individual complainant with a report of their investigation within two weeks of receiving the initial complaint. If additional actions are necessary,
                the Director, Facilities Management or designate will update the complainant as the complaint process develops.
Emergency Procedures
Incidents of Violence causing Injury
First Person at the Scene
Call 911 or send another person to call
Contact immediately College Emergency Services at x 3333
Apply first aid as appropriate
Take charge of the scene until College Emergency Services or Emergency Medical Services arrive
Take measures to prevent others from being exposed to the hazards involved in the incident
College Emergency Services
Take control of the accident scene from the first person on the scene
Take measures to ensure others will not be exposed to hazards involved in the incident
Assess the level of injury and ensure Emergency Medical Services has been notified, as appropriate
Control access to the accident scene and ensure potential evidence is not contaminated, and contact the Director of Facilities Management, Occupational Health & Safety Consultant and report details of the incident once assessment is complete, in the
        event of a fatal or critical injury
Canvass for potential witnesses
Escort responding Emergency Medical Services to the scene
Active Attacker Procedures
If you are in a situation where there is an Active Attacker, take the following actions:
Get Out (Evacuate)
If it can be done safely, exit the building immediately - if others agree to follow, evacuate regardless of whether it is safe to do so
Notify anyone you encounter to exit the building
When a safe location has been reached, call 911 or x 3333
Leave your belongings; have an escape route in mind; and do not pull the fire alarm
Hide (Lockdown)
If evacuation is not possible, follow the lockdown procedures - go to the nearest classroom/office, close and lock or barricade the door
Turn off lights and keep away from doors and windows
Hide under desks or other furniture and stay quiet
Silence cell phones and do not answer the door
Listen for announcement from the emergency voice communication system and follow instruction
If the fire alarm sounds while in lockdown, remain in lockdown as long as there is no sign of smoke or fire
Wait for law enforcement to escort you from the building
Fight (Take Action)
If left with no other option and only when your life is in imminent danger, fight back to incapacitate the attacker
Enlist others in the room to help
References
Occupational Health & Safety Act
Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act
Criminal Code of Canada
College Policies
Student Rights & Responsibilities & Discipline (2000-5-1)
Assessing, Addressing & Serving the High Risk Student (2000-5-2)
Confidentiality & Privacy of Information & Records (2000-7-1)
Employee Discipline (3000-2-3)
Respectful College Community (4000-5-3)
Sexual Assault & Sexual Violence Policy & Protocol (4000-3-9)
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search