All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
4000-5-2 Advertising & Information Materials
Responsible Executive
Senior Director, Community Engagement
Policy Sponsor
Associate Director, Marketing & Recruitment
Issue Date
July 22, 1988
Supersedes Date
November 7, 2019
Last Review
December 14, 2023
Last Revision
December 14, 2023
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
Policy
All communication materials, including corporate website, advertising in all mediums, print pieces, social media channels, and communications must adhere to the
Lambton College Brand Guide
.
All college advertising, domestic, international, or otherwise, must be directed through the Marketing, Communications and Recruitment department.
Publishing of College communication material must include the approved logo in adherence to the Brand Guide. Any deviation from these standards must be approved by the Associate Director, Marketing & Recruitment or their designate.
Appendix A
Advertising & Information Materials Procedures
Departments across the college must request marketing services, including advertising needs, via the Jira request form on mylambton.ca.
Departments should include as many details as possible in the form including budget, timeline, content, medium, specific graphic requests, and intended target audience.
The form will be assigned to a coordinator and, if necessary, reviewed with the Associate Director, Marketing & Recruitment.
The Coordinator will:
Follow up with the departments who made the request to clarify and confirm details.
Action the request with necessary marketing team members, as appropriate.
Follow up with the department and/or their manager for revisions/finals approvals.
Action the request with the appropriate vendor.
Provide follow up metrics to the department, if available.
Receive the invoice and ensure it is forwarded to the department for payment processing.
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search