All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
4000-2-1b Supply Chain Code of Ethics
Responsible Executive
Senior Vice-President, Strategy & Corporate Services
Policy Sponsor
Director, Finance
Issue Date
October 27, 1994
Supersedes Date
October 27, 1994
Last Review
November 15, 2019
Last Revision
November 15, 2019
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
It is the intention of the College to ensure an ethical, professional and accountable college supply chain.
Policy
Personal Integrity and Professionalism
All individuals involved with procurement or other supply chain related activities must act, and be seen to act, with integrity and professionalism.
Honesty, care and due diligence must be integral to all supply chain activities within and between the college, suppliers and stakeholders.
Respect must be demonstrated for each other and for the environment. Confidential information must be safeguarded.
All participants must not engage in any activity that may create, or appear to create, a conflict of interest, such as accepting gifts or favours, providing preferential treatment, or publicly endorsing suppliers or products.
Accountability and Transparency
Supply chain activities must be open and accountable. In particular, contracting and purchasing activities must be fair, transparent and conducted with a view to obtaining the best value for public money.
All participants must ensure that public sector resources are used in a responsible, efficient and effective manner.
Compliance and Continuous Improvement
All individuals involved in procurement or other supply chain related activities must comply with this Code of Ethics, the laws of Canada and Ontario and the
Purchasing (4000-2-1) policy
,
 which was developed in alignment with the Ontario Supply Chain Guidelines.
All individuals should continuously work to improve supply chain policies and procedures, to improve their supply chain knowledge and skill levels, and to share leading practices.
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search