All Policies
1000 Index, Circulation Lists, Amendments
2000 Academic & Student Affairs
3000 Personnel Administration
4000 General Administration
4000-6-6 Fair Dealing
Responsible Executive
Senior Vice-President, Academic & Student Success
Policy Sponsor
Director, Teaching & Learning Commons
Issue Date
March 31, 2011
Supersedes Date
September 27, 2012
Last Review
March 11, 2020
Last Revision
January 21, 2020
Upon request, the college will provide a copy of this policy in an alternate format.
Lambton College fully supports and endorses, the Fair Dealing Policy which has been developed by the legal counsel for the Association of Canadian Community Colleges as presented below.
It is important to note that Fair Dealing is only one of several users' rights in the Copyright Act.
Association of Canadian Community Colleges - Fair Dealing Policy
The fair dealing provision in the
Copyright Act
permits use of a copyright-protected work without permission from the copyright owner or the payment of copyright royalties. To qualify for fair dealing, two tests must be passed.
First, the "dealing" must be for a purpose stated in the
Copyright Act
: research, private study, criticism, review, news reporting, education, satire, and parody. Educational use of a copyright-protected work passes the first test.
The second test is that the dealing must be "fair." In landmark decisions in 2004 and in 2012, the Supreme Court of Canada provided guidance as to what this test means in schools and post-secondary educational institutions.
This Fair Dealing Policy applies fair dealing in non-profit K-12 schools and post-secondary educational institutions and provides reasonable safeguards for the owners of copyright-protected works in accordance with the
Copyright Act
and the Supreme
    Court decisions.
Guidelines from ACCC Fair Dealing Policy
Teachers, instructors, professors and staff members in non-profit educational institutions may communicate and reproduce, in paper or electronic form, short excerpts from a copyright-protected work for the purposes of research, private study, criticism,
        review, news reporting, education, satire and parody.
Copying or communicating short excerpts from a copyright-protected work under this Fair Dealing Policy for the purpose of news reporting, criticism or review should mention the source and, if given in the source, the name of the author or creator
        of the work.
A single copy of a short excerpt from a copyright-protected work may be provided or communicated to each student enrolled in a class or course:
as a class handout
as a posting to a learning or course management system that is password protected or otherwise restricted to students of a school or post-secondary educational institution
as part of a course pack
A short excerpt means:
up to 10% of a copyright-protected work (including a literary work, musical score, sound recording, and an audiovisual work)
one chapter from a book
a single article from a periodical
an entire artistic work (including a painting, print, photograph, diagram, drawing, map, chart, and plan) from a copyright-protected work containing other artistic works
an entire newspaper article or page
an entire single poem or musical score from a copyright-protected work containing other poems or musical scores
an entire entry from an encyclopedia, annotated bibliography, dictionary or similar reference work
Copying or communicating multiple short excerpts from the same copyright-protected work, with the intention of copying or communicating substantially the entire work, is prohibited.
Copying or communicating that exceeds the limits in this Fair Dealing Policy should be referred to the Director, Teaching & Learning Commons or his/her designate for evaluation. An evaluation of whether the proposed copying or communication is permitted
        under fair dealing will be made based on all relevant circumstances.
No fees will be charged by the College for communicating or copying a short excerpt from a copyright-protected work other than to cover the costs of the institution, including overhead costs.
For questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
Policy Sponsor
by phoning our main line 519-542-7751.
Search